Doc: refactoring (#1952)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: ansible_collections/arista/avd/docs/contribution/development.md

# Development tips & tricks

## Overview

> We can use two methods to get Ansible up and running quickly with all the requirements to leverage ansible-avd. A Python Virtual Environment or Docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two methods can be used to get Ansible up and running quickly with all the requirements to leverage ansible-avd: a Python Virtual Environment or Docker container.
```

documention looks more elegant not using "we" - cf Google documentation style: https://developers.google.com/style/pronouns#personal-pronouns

> Two methods can be used to get Ansible up and running quickly with all the requirements to leverage ansible-avd: a Python Virtual Environment or Docker container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two methods can be used to get Ansible up and running quickly with all the requirements to leverage ansible-avd: a Python Virtual Environment or a Docker container.
```

- An [mkdoc](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/titom73/mkdocs) for AVD documentation listening on port `localhost:8000`
- An [mkdoc](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/titom73/mkdocs) or CVP documentation listening on port `localhost:8001`
- An [AVD runner](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/avdteam/base) with a pseudo terminal connected to shell for Ansible execution

> ## Docker things

Reviewer: Maybe let's change this title? `things` does not sound too good

The Docker container approach for development can be used to ensure that everybody is using the same development environment while still being flexible enough to use the repository you are making changes to. You can inspect the Dockerfile to see what packages have been installed. The container will mount the current working directory so that you can work with your local files.

> The Ansible version is passed in with the Docker build command using the **`ANSIBLE_VERSION`** variable. If the ***ANSIBLE*** variable isn't used, the Dockerfile will, by default, set the Ansible version to describe in AVD requirements.

Reviewer: Not sure what the `***ANSIBLE***` variable is as compared to the `ANSIBLE_VERSION`.

Also somehow in written documenation I would not use contraction like `isn't` though google does not agree with me :) https://developers.google.com/style/contractions

Author: This is most likely an error and meant to be ANSIBLE_VERSION in both uses of the variable. This sentence could also use some restructuring.

Before you can use a container, you must install [**Docker CE**](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) and [**docker-compose**](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) on your workstation.

> Since Docker image is now automatically published on [**docker-hub**](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/avdteam/base), a dedicated repository is available on [**Arista NetDevOps Community**](https://github.com/arista-netdevops-community/docker-avd-base).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the AVD Docker image is now automatically published on [**docker-hub**](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/avdteam/base), a dedicated repository is available on [**Arista NetDevOps Community**](https://github.com/arista-netdevops-community/docker-avd-base).
```

### Pre-commit hook

[`pre-commit`](https://github.com/aristanetworks/ansible-avd/blob/devel/.pre-commit-config.yaml) can run standard hooks on every commit to automatically point out issues in code such as missing semicolons, trailing whitespace, and debug statements. Pointing these issues out before code review allows a code reviewer to focus on the architecture of a change while not wasting time with trivial style nitpicks.

> Repository implements following hooks:

Reviewer: We have added a new one recently but did not update this doc: `flake8` .. maybe let's open an issue and take care of this after you are done with this PR.

Author: added see #1965

- `trailing-whitespace`: Fix trailing whitespace. If found, commit is stopped, and you must rerun the commit process.
- `end-of-file-fixer`: Like `trailing-whitespace`, this hook fixes the wrong end of the file and stops your commit.

> - `check-yaml`: Check all YAML files are valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `check-yaml`: Checks that all YAML files are valid.
```

- `check-added-large-files`: Check if there is no large file included in the repository.
- `check-merge-conflict`: Validate there is no `MERGE` syntax related to an invalid merge process.
- `pylint`: Run python linting with settings defined in [`pylintrc`](https://github.com/aristanetworks/ansible-avd/blob/devel/pylintrc).
- `yamllint`: Validate all YAML files using configuration from [`yamllintrc`](https://github.com/aristanetworks/ansible-avd/blob/devel/.github/yamllintrc).

> - `ansible-lint`: Validate YAML files are valid against Ansible rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ansible-lint`: Valid YAML files are validated against Ansible rules.
```
